# Parking Management in Assembly language Code

Even in today’s digital world, the existing parking lots do not have any system for keeping track of the number and type of vehicles that come throughout the day. Most parking lots manually record the data in notepads, which is a tedious job and may lead to miscalculations due to human error. A digital system with low computational resources will help the parking lots

So, we decided to make a Parking Management System using the 8086 microprocessors, where all records will be stored in a database. The contents of the database can be updated/deleted at any point of time. There is also a system to record the type of vehicle that has entered. 

At the end of the day, the database contents can be fetched to calculate the total amount earned from all the vehicles. There will be no error in the calculations, as the results will be generated by computer.


We decided to make a Parking Management System using the 8086 microprocessor and simulate it using emu8086. As the system is based Assembly language for 8086, therefore it allows this System to be functional in bare minimum computational resources and have Greater Automation.
Parking is a designated area for car parking in the mall. All supermarkets have designated areas, with storage space anywhere between 500 - 10,000 two and four wheels - depending on their size and popularity. These parking lots can be indoor or outdoor, public or private. Most of the big indoor grocery stores, also called parking garages, have VIP outdoor amenities.

There are several types of parking garages:

One-Level Parking Garage
One-storey parking garage is a single-storey parking garage. Tier II & III city supermarkets usually have a large single-storey parking garage.

Multi-Level / Multi Storey Parking
Garage: Multi-level or multi-storey garages are multi-storey parking garages. The design of a multilevel parking garage can be very different and large. The most common design is a garage with ramps from one level to another. Great efforts are being made to build a high-quality parking lot to avoid traffic jams at intersections. Some state-of-the-art garages also have robotic systems that allow cars to move from one level to another. Stairs of these types of garages can go up, down or both. This type of parking is usually available only at Tier I supermarkets.

Underground Parking Garage: An underground parking garage can contain several levels below ground level, but above ground level. Usually, underground parking garages are located in the city centre where there is not much space to build a parking space, but there is a need to build one.

Automatic Parking Garage: Automatic parking garages are the highest level of parking. These are garages with robotic systems that move cars from one level to another. The garage floor stairs can go up, down or both.

Benefits of Scheduled & Automatic Parking
- No need to search for available parking spaces
- No need to go to the parking garage
- Save time
- A consistent parking experience
- The car is safe and secure without worrying about theft and injury
